---
layout: post
tags: blog
title: Beast Apothecary
---

These are some of the various byproducts that pop off when I adapt a random DnD [monster](list/monsters) to the Glog. They are designed to be relatively simple and readily useable by adventures when they encounter one of the monsters.

<b>Adarna Guano</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Petrifying Ointment</summary>
_The [adarna bird](/monsters/bird-adarna) is as elusive as it is beautiful, and many moral fables have been written about vain parvenus dying on their quest to capture it. These tales overshadow the more nefarious usage of the bird's droppings, which royal alchemists suspect have been used in a kidnapping plot against a princess. Must be kept moist._

<span class="alchemy">**Adarna Guano.** [Petrifies](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) a sleeping creature upon contact with their bare skin.</span>
</details>

<b>Arassas Bile</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Corrosive Antifreeze Liquid</summary>
_Used by [Cat-Dragons](/monsters/arassas) to carve their meandering tunnel-dens through glaciers. Experienced hunters from mountain clans prefer using chamois leather to scrape the leftovers on the tunnel walls over risking their lives attempting to harvest it from the dangerous beast's stomach._

<span class="alchemy">**Arassas Bile.** Corrosive liquid (1D6 damage). Prevents freezing, but renders vulnerable to cold damage until washed.</span>
</details>

<b>Arctic Bat Saliva</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Hypothermic Poison</summary>
_Used by many northerners to preserve food, [arctic bat](/monsters/bat-arctic) saliva also speeds hypothermia, making it a very convenient tool for those wanting to make their nefarious deed seem like an accident. Must be shaken before use._

<span class="alchemy">**Arctic Bat Saliva.** In wound: Save or be poisoned, save again each day to cure. You are [stunned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) in subzero temperatures.</span>
</details>

<b>Barbazu Beard Wax</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Flesh-Preserving Balm</summary>
_Sinners crucified by the cruel [bearded devils](/monsters/barbazu) never stop feeling pain, a quality that has marked the imagination of the Church's inquisitors._

<span class="alchemy">**Barbazu Beard Wax.** In wound: Save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions), save again each day to cure. Prevents hit point recovery. On hair: animates them like snakes.</span>
</details>

<b>Basilisk Eye</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Miniature Elemental Earth Portal</summary>
_Sought after by wizards and masons alike, [Basilisk](/monsters/basilisk) Eyes must be kept hydrated and in the dark at all time. They also have no powers if harvested more than an hour after the beast's death._

<span class="alchemy">**Basilisk Eye**. Tiny portal to the elemental plane of earth. If exposed to light will start excreting enough concrete to fill a 5' cube before being clogged.</span>
</details>

<b>Basilisk Venom</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Geophobic Poison</summary>
_Used by the terrible monster to eat its petrified prays, this deadly venom is prized by assassins for its capacity to be poured through stone floors into the kitchen of unfortunate targets. It's even more prized by adventurers wanting a way to free a petrified comrade._

<span class="alchemy">**Basilisk Venom.** Drips through stone like it was porous. In food or wound: Save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions), save again each day to cure. Fail 4 times and die.  On skin: Cures [petrification](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).</span>
</details>

<b>Black Dracospit</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Volatile Sleeping Poison</summary>
_Contrary to popular belief, this substance is harvested from a rare species of cave-dwelling [armored spitting centipedes](/monsters/centipede-dracopede-black) and not from black dragons. It is more commonly used as a grenade by creatures from the underdark who devised strange full-body protective suits to farm the liquid._

<span class="alchemy">**Black Dracospit.** Builds pressure and has 1/6 chance to explode if shaken. If it does, take 1D6 damage and save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions), save again each day to cure. If this damage would bring you below 1 HP, you fall asleep for 12 hours instead.</span>
</details>

<b>Blue Dracospit</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Volatile Freezing Liquid</summary>
_Contrary to popular belief, this versatile and volatile liquid is harvested from rare species of nordic [spitting centipedes](/monsters/centipede-dracopede-blue) and not from a white dragon. Locals use it as instant mortar to quickly build shelters when the temperature drops during sunset._

<span class="alchemy">**Blue Dracospit.** Builds pressure and has 1/6 chance to explode if shaken. Instantly freezes in contact with air in zubzero teperatures.</span>
</details>

<b>Cacus Body Oil</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>The Best Wrestling Oil</summary>
_The semi-nomadic [cacus](/monsters/cacus) giants are known to use this oil to cover their bodies before wrestling, but also to breathe fire and cook. They have no problem selling it to prospective buyers, but they also have no problem scamming them._

<span class="alchemy"> **Cacus Body Oil**. Highly slippery (You can't be grappled), highly flammable, and highly flavourful.</span>
</details>

<b>Catcus Fever</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Recreational Drug</summary>
_Harvested from the quills of the discreet [cactus cat](/monsters/cat-cactus), this poison is prised by moonshiners wanting to created especially potent brews._

<span class="alchemy"> **Cactus Fever.** Ingested or in wound: Save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions), save again every 10 minutes to cure. While poisoned, you are a drunken mess: each player names a different emotion and rolls a D20, the referee alters your actions in a dramatic way according to the emotion with the highest roll. Roll a new emotion every 10 minutes.</span>
</details>

<b>Cadejo Musk</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Perfume of Undeath</summary>
_The [cadejos](/monsters/cadejo) are mystical dogs that guide spirits and drunkards in and out of the land of the dead. They rarely reveal themselves to people seeking them, but those who manage acquire their musk can mingle with ghosts without trouble._

<span class="alchemy">**Cadejo Musk.** One dose spread on the neck will make the wearer appear dead to other dead creatures for 2D4 hours.</span>
</details>

<b>Centipede Venom</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>A Classic</summary>
_A classic found in most poisoner kits across the world, [centipede](/monsters/centipede) venom dries very quickly when exposed to air._

<span class="alchemy">**Centipede Venom.** In Wound: Save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions), save again each day to cure. Lose 1D4 points of Fortitude.</span>
</details>

<b>Chevall Musk</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Equine Perfume</summary>
_The militant [Chevall horseweres](/monsters/chevall) free horses from the chains of domestication. Humanoids who gain their power most often use it for the opposite instead._

<span class="alchemy">**Chevall Musk.** Lasts 2D4 hours. Is very pleasant to equine creatures. Horses will be charmed by you, other horse-like creatures are allowed a save.</span>
</details>

<b>Green Dracospit</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Volatile Acid</summary>
_Extremely volatile acid harvested from rare forest-dwelling [spitting centipedes](/monsters/centipede-dracopede-green). Used by forest folks as the base for many deadly bombs._

<span class="alchemy">**Green Dracospit.** Builds pressure and has 1/6 chance to explode if shaken. If it does, take 1D8 damage. Corrodes organic matter. </span>
</details>

<b>Leech Drool</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Painkiller</summary>
_This basic medicinal component would be pretty common if the quantities required to cover a wound were not disproportionately large compared to the common leech. However, swamp and tunnel dwellers have learned to harvest it from giant leech species and [bloodbeasts](/monsters/bloodbeast)._

<span class="alchemy">**Leech Drool**. Prevents scarring and pain from an open wound.</span>
</details>

<b>Luck Powder</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Performance Drug</summary>
_The jungle [fruit-fairies](/monsters/aziza) grow strange fruits in the shape of dead tresspassers. When these fruits are dried and grounded, they produce the drug colloquialy known as "Powdered Luck". Many adventurers grow apoplectic and terrorized of failure after relying too much on it._

<span class="alchemy">**Luck Powder.** For 10 minutes, you cannot roll below 10. For a session after your first snort, you must carry an aziza on your shoulder (taking an inventory slot). You get two azizas after your second snort, etc. You and fairies are the only ones who can see or hear them. They are chatty.</span>
</details>

<b>Iron Seed</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>For Metal Gardeners</summary>
_Grown in the mist along leylines by the mysterious three-armed [athach giants](/monsters/athach) and jealously garded by them, Iron Apple Trees make for an exotic garden feature. Notably, the fruits produced can be smelted to forge [cold iron](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#rare-metals) weapons tailor-made to kill fairies._

<span class="alchemy"> **Iron Seed**. If planted in hard rock along a leyline and watered, it will grow overnight into a tree producing 1D8 [cold iron](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#rare-metals) apples per year.</span>
</details>

<b>Red Dracospit</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Volatile Flammable Liquid</summary>
_[Dracopedes](/monsters/centipede-dracopede-red) got their name from their ability to spit flammable liquid leading to many legends linking them to dragons._

<span class="alchemy">**Red Dracospit.** Builds pressure and has 1/6 chance to explode if shaken. Highly flammable. Instantly catches on fire when exposed to hot air and burns 1 hour or until washed.</span>
</details>

<b>Vyderac Pheromones</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Itching Powder</summary>
_The deadly tropical [vyderac beetles](/monsters/beetle-vyderac) spray this fine yellow powder to attract their swarm to a potential pray. As deadly as it is irritating, the pheromones will lure 1D4 vyderac swarms in 1D6 hours if used in the jungle. This property is actually the most dangerous, as whole villages have been known to be consumed by the Swarm after a pheromone bomb was planted in it._

<span class="alchemy"> **Vyderac Pheromones**. On skin: So itchy, you must save each round until you succeed 3 times or are washed. Until then, you cannot focus on any task that requires more than one gesture. If you fail 3 times, you sstart bleeding from your scratching and the poison has entered your body. In wound: In 10 minutes, you will be completely [stunned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) for 8 hours.</span>

Vyderac pheromones are also found in liquid, acidic (1D6 damage) form when harvested from larvae and queens.
</details>

<b>Willow Death</b>
<details markdown="1">
<summary>Deadly Venom</summary>
_One of the most potent, if simple, toxin is produced by the [olitiau clawed bat](/monsters/bat-olitiau). A single dose of this poison can be harvested from each of these deadly fluffy critters, but few dare disturbing their colonies._

<span class="alchemy"> **Olitiau Venom**. Save or start [dying](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions). </span>
</details>

Taken from the first 55 monsters of the [Salty Goo bestiary](/list/monsters)!
