---
layout: post
tags: monster beast arctic forest desert rocky plains swamp
permalink: /monsters/boar
title: Boar
---

A wild swine. An omnivorous beast.

Pigs, boars and warthogs are sturdy foragers with small hooves, a snout, tusks and big muscles. They can be agressive when provoked.

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD** 1 | **Armor:** 0  |
| **Hit it:** normal | **Dodge it:** normal |
| **Movement:** normal      | 

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

This creature can **smell** as well as it can see. It is also very stubborn: If an attack would reduce the boar to 0 HP, there's a 1/3 chance it doesn't kill the boar.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Charge</ins>. If it has the space for it, the boar charges with its tusks (1D6 dmg). A target with Fortitude below 5 falls [prone](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).

<ins>Gore</ins>. The boar makes a melee attack (1D4 dmg).

<br>

---

# Giant Boar

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD** 3 | **Armor:** 1  |
| **Hit it:** normal | **Dodge it:** normal |
| **Movement:** fast      | 

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

This creature can **smell** as well as it can see. It is also very stubborn: If an attack would reduce the boar to 0 HP, there's a 1/3 chance it doesn't kill the boar.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Charge</ins>. If it has the space for it, the boar charges with its tusks (1D8 dmg). A target with Fortitude below 8 falls [prone](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).

<ins>Gore</ins>. The boar makes a melee attack (1D6 dmg).
<br>

---

<br>

**Number** : 1D6 boars or 1D4 giant boars <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : A musky clearing, flattened by hooves. <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span> <br>
**Desire** : Any Food & Assert Dominance

<button id="generate-btn">Generate Roaming Monster Event</button>
<p id="RoamResult" style="font-style: italic;">When you roll this monster on your encounter table. Most of them are hints the monster is nearby.</p>

<button onclick="generateMood()">Generate What The Monster Is Doing</button>
<p id="MoodResult" style="font-style: italic;">If the party meets this monster, what is it doing?</p>
<script src="/scripts/generateMood.js"></script>

---

## So, You Are Hunting Boars?

New carousing activities!

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Tame the Beast</summary>
If you have captured this beast, you can spend the equivalent of 1 bags of gold (3 for a giant boar) in food between two adventures to tame it. It is now one of your <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="You can bring a follower in your adventures if you dedicate a Psyche slot to it."><i>followers</i></span>. Each extra bag of gold spent training the beast teaches it a one-word order. Otherwise, it only acts to eat or in self-defence. 
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Craft from Beast Parts</summary>
Boar meat is delicious. Piglets can be domesticated to sniff things.

If you have access to an artisan and a workshop, you can spend loot between two adventures to create something with parts of the beast. The object you craft can be anything mostly made of the provided materials. If you use mundane tools, the result will be mundane; if you spent at least a bag of gold on it, the object will be special; and if you spend the equivalent of a treasure for the tools, it will be magical. Discuss what you want with the referee.
</details>

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
  <script>
  // ENCOUNTER GENERATOR SCRIPT
    $(document).ready(function() {
      $("#generate-btn").click(function() {
        // define the specific value to search for in column 0
        var searchValue = "0008"; // change this to the actual value you need

        // retrieve the CSV file
        $.get("/CSV/Monster - Index.csv", function(data) {
          // split the CSV data by rows and remove the header row
          var rows = data.split("\n").slice(1);

          // filter the rows by the specific value in column 0
          var matchingRows = rows.filter(function(row) {
            var columns = row.split(",");
            return columns[0] === searchValue;
          });
