---
layout: post
tags: monster beast  city enchanted magical
permalink: /monsters/cat
title: Cat
---

Sneaky quadrupedal pest killers and pets. A tiny beast.

_Cats are domesticated nocturnal predators that hunt rodents._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 0 | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** fast, climb normal     |   | 

It **can** smell and see very well, allowing it to operate in the dark without troubles. It is also very sneaky.

**Attacks (1/round)**

Cats are too weak to inflict lethal damage with their attacks.

<br>

---

# Cat Swarm

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 0 +3D4 HP | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** fast, climb normal     |   | 


It **can** smell and see very well, allowing it to operate in the dark without troubles. It is also very sneaky.

In a swarm, creatures are **immune** to being grappled or attacked by single target spells, and **resist** mind and weapon damage. **However**, they take double damage from area of effect attacks.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Scratches.</ins> To dodge a swarm’s attack, the roll has to beat 10 + the swarm’s HP. It inflicts 1D4 damage.
<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D4 cat swarms.
1. **Lair:** A passage between buildings or tombs, with plenty of hideouts. 1/2 chance there are 2D6 kittens. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** A cat's meow, very close.
1. **Spoor:** A dead mouse.
1. **Tracks:** A single cat, just out of range.
1. **Trace:** A hair ball
1. **Trace:** A bowl of milk.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

There’s not much to gain there besides a bit of fur.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the bat is a symbol of ...

1. Desire
1. Cleverness
1. Bad luck
1. Femininity
1. Witch
1. Sacred
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
Why make a monster stat block for a cat? Because being attacked by a swarm of cats is an experience I want my players to live. — SaltyGoo
</details>
