---
layout: post
tags: monster fey lesser  sea enchanted water deep
permalink: /monsters/nereid
title: Nereid
---

Sea nymph. A fey.

_Imagine a person of extreme beauty, their skin glistening in cresting wave hues, their hair lush with seafoam. Smells like brisk air and has a clear, carrying voice._

_Boiling emotions, Graceful violence, Vulnerable naiveté._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 1 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** hard    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal, swim normal     |   | 

It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy).
It **can** speak with fishes and algae, become invisible underwater, and teleport from wave to wave.
**Also**, as a imaginary creature, willpower must be used for attack rolls against it instead of dexterity.
Out of combat, it can cast divination, enchantment and sea-themed **magic**. If slain, a dryad is reincarnated on a full moon if its tree is still alive and healthy.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Weapon</ins>. The nereid makes a weapon attack if it has one.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> *Create Saltwater, Hypnotic Pattern, Summon Fish, Wall of Foam.*

<ins>Command Sealife.</ins> One marine animal or plant in sight makes a melee attack on a target of the nereid’s choice. It can save to resist.

<ins>Allure of the Sea.</ins> The nereid attempts to bewitch one humanoid or beast in sight. On a fail, the target is [charmed](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) until next dawn. The charm breaks if the nereid or its allies attack the charmed person. A creature who succeeds its save is immune to this nereid’s charm forever.

A charmed creature can breath underwater. Whoever holds the nereid’s shawl can also make the charmed creature incapable of breathing outside of water. A remove curse spell ends this effect.

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 nereid & 1D4-1 fishes & 1D4-1 enthralled goons.
1. **Lair:** A beautifully constructed underwater boudoir full of collected curiosities.<br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Beautiful, clear singing.
1. **Spoor:** The clothes of an enthralled humanoid, neatly put into a pile.
1. **Tracks:** Singing in the waves.
1. **Trace:** Discarded clothes pieces near the coast.
1. **Trace:** A curious bard, looking for inspiration.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants </summary>

1. To be presented with a new, aesthetically pleasing piece of art.
1. To raise the local sea life against the surface dwellers.
1. Restore the purity of local waters.
1. Free another captured nereid.
1. Perform a mesmerizing performance for a cadre of feys.
1. Get a new plaything.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
 
A dying nereid and its shawl both return to water if killed. What is often left is a single, beautiful pearl, and coral jewelry.

Wearing a nereid shawl will give you the inspiration to create a spell with the word *Foam*.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Player Class</summary>
Play as a [nereid](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user/nereid)!
</details>
