---
layout: post
tags: monster beast arctic forest mountain
permalink: /monsters/owlbear
title: Owlbear
---

##### Classic DnD monster.

_Imagine a large bear, except it has the face of an angry owl and its head and front legs are covered in feathers._

Half owl, half bear. A large omnivorous beast.

Owlbears are nocturnal solitary beast that eat whatever is available to them. They use their excelent sight to spot movement in the dark. 

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD** 4 | **Armor:** 0  |
| **Hit it:** normal | **Dodge it:** normal |
| **Movement:** normal      | 

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

This creature has an excellent sense of sight, even in the dark.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite and Claws</ins>. The owlbear makes two melee attack (1D6 dmg).

<ins>Intimidating Stance</ins>. The owlbear stands on its rear legs. As long as it doesn’t move it can make three melee attacks with its Bite and Claws.

<br>

---

**Number** : 1 <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : A bone litter in a warm cave. (1D4-2 cubs)<span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span> <br>
**Desire** : Food Of Any Kind & Sleep During the Day

<button id="generate-btn">Generate Roaming Monster Event</button>
<p id="RoamResult" style="font-style: italic;">When you roll this monster on your encounter table. Most of them are hints the monster is nearby.</p>

<button onclick="generateMood()">Generate What The Monster Is Doing</button>
<p id="MoodResult" style="font-style: italic;">If the party meets this monster, what is it doing?</p>
<script src="/scripts/generateMood.js"></script>

---

## So, You Are Hunting Griffons?

New carousing activities!

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Tame the Beast</summary>
If you have captured this beast, you can spend the equivalent of 4 bags of gold in food between two adventures to tame it. It is now one of your <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="You can bring a follower in your adventures if you dedicate a Psyche slot to it."><i>followers</i></span>. Each extra bag of gold spent training the beast teaches it a one-word order. Otherwise, it only acts to eat or in self-defence. 
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Craft from Beast Parts</summary>
Owlbear fur/leather makes very good leather protection. It’s possible, but very hard to domesticate one if you have a cub.

If you have access to an artisan and a workshop, you can spend loot between two adventures to create something with parts of the beast. The object you craft can be anything mostly made of the provided materials. If you use mundane tools, the result will be mundane; if you spent at least a bag of gold on it, the object will be special; and if you spend the equivalent of a treasure for the tools, it will be magical. Discuss what you want with the referee.
</details>

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
  <script>
  // ENCOUNTER GENERATOR SCRIPT
    $(document).ready(function() {
      $("#generate-btn").click(function() {
        // define the specific value to search for in column 0
        var searchValue = "0006"; // change this to the actual value you need

        // retrieve the CSV file
        $.get("/CSV/Monster - Index.csv", function(data) {
          // split the CSV data by rows and remove the header row
          var rows = data.split("\n").slice(1);

          // filter the rows by the specific value in column 0
          var matchingRows = rows.filter(function(row) {
            var columns = row.split(",");
            return columns[0] === searchValue;
          });
