---
layout: post
tags: monster fey lesser forest jungle enchanted
permalink: /monsters/aziza
title: Aziza
---

Friendly underbush fruit fairy people. A small fey.

_Imagine a leafy, child-like, hairy creature with beady eyes. It dresses in leaf cloaks._

_Naively generous, hallucinating, beast-tamers._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 1 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal     |   | 

It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy).
It **can** speak with animals and plants, see in the dark, and hide very well in vegetation.
**Also**, as a imaginary creature, willpower must be used for attack rolls against it instead of dexterity.
Out of combat, it can cast warding and druidic-themed **magic**. It often rides animals.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Club</ins>. The aziza makes a melee attack (1D4).

<ins>Spellcasting</ins>. *Charm Animal, Detect Evil, Cloud of Leaves, Summon Fruits, Protection from Evil, Stick to Snake*

<ins>Snort Luck Powder</ins> (1/day). The aziza can't get below 1 hit point for 10 minute, or until it rolls a 20 or a pair.

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1D8 aziza & 1D6 -1 beasts.
1. **Lair:** 1D10 overgrown anthills with bamboo doors. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** A branch grows and sprouts a juicy fruit.
1. **Spoor:** A half eaten fresh fruit.
1. **Tracks:**  Some of the party’s words are mimicked with a grass whistle.
1. **Trace:** A pruned fruit’s folds look like a face. Roll for reaction, it knows about aziza.
1. **Trace:** A pile of fruit, rotten and abandoned.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. To feed you so you do not eat them.
1. Grow face-fruits from humanoid compost.
1. Channel sunlight onto a fruit.
1. Ride giant bees to pollinate giant flowers.
1. Struggle with addiction to luck powder.
1. Protect a humongous fruit that blocks a path.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the Body</summary>

You find a stick and ...(Roll as many times as the HD of the monster)

1. Nothing.
1. A fresh fruit.
1. A tiny blowgun.
1. A tiny leaf cloak.
1. A face-fruit.
1. A pouch of luck powder.

Powder Luck is made by grinding face-fruits which are grown from the bodies of humanoids.

Eating an aziza feeds for a day and provides the effects of a greater restoration spell. It also makes all animals from the area permanently dislike you. The slight buzz might give a wizard the inspiration to create a spell with the word *Fruit*.

<span class="alchemy">**Luck Powder.** For 10 minutes, you cannot roll below 10. For a session after your first snort, you must carry an aziza on your shoulder (taking an inventory slot). You get two azizas after your second snort, etc. You and fairies are the only ones who can see or hear them. They are chatty.</span>
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The aziza, according to Beninese mythology, are small friendly fairies living in anthills. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) is what inspired me. I gave them my typical fey resistances, a fire spell (as they are said to have given the knowledge of fire to humans) and adapted their luck gift ability into a more gonzo drug-themed equivalent. — SaltyGoo
</details>
