---
layout: post
tags: monster fey greater desert plains enchanted
permalink: /monsters/chevall
title: Chevall
---

Horsewere that can turn into a centaur. A large fey.

Imagine the upper body of a human joined to the body of a horse. A centaur then, except it has horse ears and eyes. It strangely looks like a horse you've seen before.

_Fierce judge, mysanthropic trickster, protective spy._

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 3 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** fast     |   | 

It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy), as well as exhaustion.
It **can** see very well and speak the language of horses.
**Also**, as a imaginary creature, willpower must be used for attack rolls against it instead of dexterity. 

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Trample.</ins> If it has the space for it, the chevall charges, attacking every smaller creature in its path (1D6), inflicting double damage to [prone](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) creatures.

<ins>Hooves.</ins> The chevall attacks a target with its hooves (1D6). If the chevall is in centaur form, it can make a [grapple](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) attempt.

<ins>Summon Horses (1/day).</ins> The chevall summons 1D6 horses which will obey it.

<ins>Command Horse.</ins> The chevall gives a two-word order to a horse it can see and the horse must obey it. It must be an order that can be followed in one action.

<ins>Shapechange.</ins> The chevall takes the shape of a horse or a centaur.
<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D4 chevalls & 2D20 horses.
1. **Lair:** A vast herd of wild horses. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Neigh and laughter.
1. **Spoor:** A caravan, its horses freed and its drivers dragged away.
1. **Tracks:** Horse tracks.
1. **Trace:**  A wild horse inspects your horses.
1. **Trace:** A tall wooden horse totem.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Free all the horses.
1. Know how you treat your mount, it will test you.
1. Herd horses to the dream world.
1. Kidnap horse-loving kids and groom them into chevalls.
1. On the hunt for fruit.
1. Carry people to an archfey’s ball.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the Body</summary>

A bow made of chevall mane shoots exceptionally well and makes even better music.

Chevall leather is very supple, and makes excellent saddles. Except that no equine creatures will want to be ridden with one.

By learning how to whisper to mares like a chevall, a wizard can create a new spell with the word *horse*.

<span class="alchemy">**Chevall Musk.** Is very pleasant to equine creatures.</span>

</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
Originating from [Mystara](http://adnd.geoshitties.installgentoo.com/mm/chevall.html), the chevall must be one of the weirdest official DnD monster, which makes me want to find ways to use it. First of all, its name is just horse in French with an extra L. Secondly, it's a horse that can transform into a centaur, not the other way around!
</details>
