---
layout: post
tags: monster beast  swamp sea underdark deep
permalink: /monsters/crab
title: Crab
---

Crabs are aquatic crustacean scavengers with pincers. A tiny beast.

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 0 | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** easy    | **Dodge it:** easy  |
| **Move:** slow, swim slow     |   | 

It **can** detect nearby movement, walk on any surface, even upside down and breathe underwater. 
It **can’t** see well.
**Also**, it is indistinguishable from a normal skull when not moving.

Crabs can climb on any surface, including upside down, and can breathe underwater. They can't see well, but detect adjacent movement.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pinch</ins>. The crab makes a [grapple](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) attempt.

<br>

---

# Crab Swarm


**HD:** 0 +3D4HP  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** none <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** weak, feral and stubborn<br>
**Movement:** slow, swim slow<br>
**Morale:** brave <br>

Crabs can climb on any surface, including upside down, and can breathe underwater. They can't see well, but detect adjacent movement.

In a swarm, crabs are immune to being grappled or attacked by single target spells, and resist mind and weapon damage. However, they take double damage from area of effect attacks.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pinches.</ins> The crab swarm makes a melee attack (1) using its HP as its attack stat. On a hit, the swarm is attached to the target.

<br>

---

# Giant Crab

**HD:** 1  &nbsp; &nbsp;  **Armor:** as chain <br>
**Size:** medium <br>
**Stats:** strong, dumb, curious<br>
**Movement:** average, swim average<br>
**Morale:** coward <br>

Crabs can climb on any surface, including upside down, and can breathe underwater. They can't see well, but detects nearby movement.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pinch</ins>. The crab makes a grapple attempt. On success, the target takes 1D4 damage.

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D4 crab swarms or 1D4 giant crabs.
1. **Lair:** Sharp, sea-eroded rocks full of holes and varech. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Chitinous clicks.
1. **Spoor:** A carcass, completely eaten and cleaned.
1. **Tracks:** Sideways insectoid tracks.
1. **Trace:** A pincer.
1. **Trace:** A seagull (or other beast) eating a crab.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Crabs are delicious. You need as many crabs as there are players, or one giant crab to make a day's ration.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>

In local cultures this beast is a symbol of ...

1. Music
1. Posturing
1. Cancer
1. Armors
1. Love
1. Sacred
</details>
