---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass arctic desert forest rocky jungle mountain plains swamp city sea underdark magical air earth fire water astral
permalink: /monsters/sorcerer
title: Sorcerer
---

**People imbued with raw magical enery.** Sorcerers are innate spellcasters who can unleash powerful spells upon which they have little control. Sorcerers are often seen with _[Elementals](/list/monsters-elemental)_.


|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **Hit Points:** 9 | **Armor:** 0  |
| **Hit it:** normal | **Dodge it:** normal |
| **Movement:** normal      | **Size:** medium

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

Out of combat, the sorcerer can cast elemental magic.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Dagger</ins>. The sorcerer makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Energy Overflow</ins>. The sorcerer becomes engulfed in magical energy and starts floating 10 feet higher. As long as it is not touching the ground, damage points makes it drop by as many feet instead of hurting it.

<ins>Energy Blast</ins> (while in energy overflow only). The sorcerer flies 10 feet higher, and, for each consecutive times it has used this ability, shoots raw energy at a target in sight (1D6) and takes half the damage inflicted.

---

## **Sorcerer Variants**

Add the following powers to the generic sorcerer for a twist.

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Fire Trickster</b>. A pyromancer.</summary>
**Resists** fire, and **can** enter flames as if they were a door and come out of another flame it can see.

<ins>Fire Energy Blast.</ins> Like Energy blast, but one flammable object on the target catches on fire on a hit.

<ins>Flame Twin.</ins> The sorcerer transforms a fire nearby into a copy of itself with 1 HP. This copy dissipates after 1 round without fuel.

</details>

<br>

---

## Encounter

**Number** : 1 & 1D4 [elementals](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-elemental)<span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : It would have been a normal house if it wasn't for the utter chaos. <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Desire** : Transcend to another state of being.

<br>
<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Loot It</summary>
Each sorcerer carries a dagger, and ... (roll twice)
 
1. Nothing
2. Nothing
3. A [power orb](/2024/01/01/power-orb/)
4. A golden bracelet
5. A vial of [distilled magic](/2024/01/01/distilled-magic/)
6. A purse full of gold coins
   
</details>

<br>


<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 sorcerer & 1D4 [elementals](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-elemental)
1. **Lair:** It would have been a normal house if it wasn't for the utter chaos. Did a tornado go through it? <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** "Zap!" and laughter.
1. **Spoor:** Sparks of magical energy and a half eaten snack.
1. **Tracks:** Trail of chaos like only somebody drunk on power would do.
1. **Trace:** Strange rainless storm faraway.
1. **Trace:** A wizard, tracking a sorcerer because of the danger they represent.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>
1. More power!
1. Hide their powers and live a normal life.
1. Transcend to another state of being.
1. Will someone ever not bore them? Who wants to fight?
1. Revenge over those who persecuted them.
1. Just enjoy life.  
</details>




