---
layout: post
tags: monster undead arctic city desert jungle rocky swamp chaos cursed underdark
permalink: /monsters/ghoul
title: Ghoul
---

Cannibalistic people with rabies. An humanoid undead.

_Imagine a humanoid with sickly skin, bare feet crusted with dirt, hands black with blood, and a long, thick tongue that stretches all the way to its navel. Its eyes are bloodshot and evil and its long, dirty nails are hardened like claws. Drool, blood and rotten meat chunks stain this creature’s blackened lips, gum and chest. It stinks._

_Ravenous Frenzy, Flashes of intelligence, Bestial agility._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 1 | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** slow, climb normal    |   | 

It is **immune** to [poison](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) and [exhaustion](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions). It doesn't need to eat, breathe, sleep (because it is undead).
It **can** be very stealthy, and have a conversation when not starved.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Diseased Claw</ins>.  The ghoul makes one melee attack (1D4). On a hit, the target must save or be [stunned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions). It can save again at the end of each of its turns, it is freed after two successes, or catches _Ghoul Rabies_ and stays paralyzed 10 minutes after two failures.

<ins>Feral Bite</ins>. The ghoul makes one melee attack (1D6). Other creatures have advantage on their melee attacks against it until its next turn.

<ins>Rush.</ins> The ghoul attempts to shove a target. On its next turn, it will act first.

<span class="alchemy">
**Ghoul Rabies**. Disease. Save every night to add or remove a cumulative symptom. Symptom: requires to eat 1 extra ration per day. While sick, you can only eat meat. If you die sick, you become a ghoul.
</span>

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 3D4 ghouls & 1 ghoul lord.
3. **Lair:** A pit with bodies piled at the bottom, lined with occult symbols. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Sloppy chewing noises, getting closer.
4. **Spoor:** A gnawed arm, covered in numbing saliva.
5. **Tracks:** Random body parts eaten to the marrow.
6. **Trace:** A shrine to a demon lord of undeath.
7. **Trace:** A broken bone, gnawed.

</details>


<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Dig out bodies from a cemetery.
1. Catch prays.
1. Live a cannibalistic mockery of their former life.
1. Summon demons for a demon lord of undeath.
1. Creepily follow an innocent person.
1. Steal shiny objects.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Become a Ghoul</summary>

To become a ghoul, you must catch ghoul rabies and die of hunger. If you do, you take a template in the [ghoul class](/class/ghoul) or, if you already have 4 class templates, replace your most recent one by the ghoul class.

To turn a monster into a ghoul version of itself: the [Ghoul Beast](/monsters/ghoul-beast).

</details>

