---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass city arctic desert forest plains jungle mountain rocky swamp magical air water fire earth astral
permalink: /monsters/wizard
title: Wizard
---

**Arcane Sage.** Wizards have studied and mastered the dangerous art of spellcasting. They collect spells and secretsin their grimoire as they explore the world. Wizards are often seen with [Golems](/monsters/golem-stone) and other [constructs](/list/monsters-construct).


|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **Hit Points:** 12 | **Armor:** 0  |
| **Hit it:** normal | **Dodge it:** normal |
| **Movement:** normal      | **Size:** medium

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

If the wizard is not incapacitated, it blocks the first attack that hits it each round with an arcane barrier. Out of combat, the wizard can cast basic and scrying-themed magic.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Magic Missile</ins>. The wizard inflicts 1D4 damage to two targets.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> _Call Lightning, Polymorph, Teleportation, Invisibility_.

<br>
<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Loot It</summary>
Each wizard carries his [grimoire](/class/wizard) (roll 1D100) and ... (roll 1D6 three times)
 
1. Nothing
2. Nothing
3. A purse of opium
4. A potion of healing
5. A random [ingredient](/list/apothecary)
6. A random [spell scroll](/list/spells)
   
</details>
<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Play As One</summary>
The [Wizard](/class/wizard) character class might interest you.
</details>

<br>

---

## **Wizard Variants**

Add the following powers to the generic wizard for a twist.

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>War Wizard/b>. An army captain.</summary>
If the war wizard is not incapacitated, all creatures near it are protected from ranged attacks. Out of combat, the war wizard can light fires and bend metal.
 
<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> _Fireball, Fly, Stone Wall_.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>High Mage</b>. Practicing an higher form of magic.</summary>
If the high mage is not incapacitated, each spell cast by its enemies is cast with 1 less Magic Die. Out of combat, the high mage can do advanced divination and shape magic.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> _Banishment, Dispel Magic, Wall of Force_.
</details>


<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Spelljammer Captain</b>. A wizard piloting an interdimensional ship.</summary>

Out of combat, the spelljammer captain can do advanced divination and teleportation magic. During combat, on each of its turn, if the spelljammer captain is not incapacitated, two drone turrets will attack its enemy with light rays (1D6 dmg) that ignore armor.

<ins>Thunderstaff.</ins> The wizard makes a melee electrical attack with reach (1D6 dmg) and the target is knocked prone and knocked back 10 feet.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> _Dimension Door, Minute Meteors, Hold Person_.
</details>



<br>

---

## The Lair

**Number** : 1 <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : A tower <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Desire** : Learn all there is to learn about a very precise thing.

<button id="room-btn">Generate Random Room</button>
<p id="RoomResult">A basic dungeon thematic room.</p>

<button id="generate-btn">Generate Random Omen</button>
<p id="RoamResult">To fill a dungeon room.</p>

<button onclick="generateMood()">Generate Random Action</button>
<p id="MoodResult">To give purpose to the creature.</p>
<script src="/scripts/generateMood.js"></script>

<br>

---

 <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
<script>
      $(document).ready(function() {
        function generateResult(buttonId, resultId, columnRangeStart, columnRangeEnd) {
          $(buttonId).click(function() {
            var searchValue = "0010"; // Change this to the actual value you need

            $.get("/CSV/Monster - Index.csv", function(data) {
              var rows = data.split("\n").slice(1);
              var matchingRows = rows.filter(function(row) {
                var columns = row.split(",");
                return columns[0] === searchValue;
              });

              var selectedRow = matchingRows[Math.floor(Math.random() * matchingRows.length)];
              var selectedCell = selectedRow.split(",")[Math.floor(Math.random() * (columnRangeEnd - columnRangeStart + 1)) + columnRangeStart];

              $(resultId).html(selectedCell); // Use .html() to insert HTML content
            });
          });
        }

        generateResult("#room-btn", "#RoomResult", 38, 43);
        generateResult("#generate-btn", "#RoamResult", 3, 8);
      });
    </script>
