---
layout: post
tags: monster npcclass city arctic desert forest plains jungle mountain rocky swamp magical air water fire earth astral
permalink: /monsters/priest
title: Priest
---

<span class="alchemy"> *These are NPC class templates. Add them to some [humanoids](https://saltygoo.github.io/list/monsters-humanoid) or other monsters to diversify an encounter. Bold abilities are passive, underlined ones are added to the attack options of the original creature. If necessary, you can adjust the damage dice to match the base monster’s. — SaltyGoo* </span>

Priests are religious leaders. If they can cast spells, it's because they serve the Authority or a petty god.<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 priest and ...
  1. 1D20 Commoners
  2. 1D4 [soldiers](/list//monsters/soldier).
  4. 1D4 [goons](/monsters/bandits).
  5. roll twice.
1. **Lair:** The well tended shrine to a god. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** The sound of a sermon to a god.
1. **Spoor:** A recent offering to a god.
1. **Tracks:** A procession of commoners in honor of a god.
1. **Trace:** Statues of a god.
1. **Trace:** A symbol of a god.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Tithe.
1. Proselytize.
1. Talk to a very important person.
1. Conduct an important ceremony.
1. Purge the land off corruption/infidels.
1. Sinners.  
</details>

---

**Generic Priest**

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 2 | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** easy    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal     |   |

Out of combat, the priest can ward a door from minor aberrations, fairies or undeads for a day.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Staff</ins>. The priest makes a melee attack (1D4).

<ins>Stoke the flames of faith (recharge 2/6).</ins> Intelligent faithful creatures hearing the priest have 1D6 extra temporary hit points until the priest's next turn.

<ins>Rebuke Undead (recharge 2/6).</ins> Each undead creature near the priest must save against [fear](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).

<br>

---

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>Keeper of the Forge</b>. Worships industry.</summary>

**Non-Combat Magic:** Metalomancy

<ins>Flaming Hammer</ins>. The priest makes a melee attack (1D8).

<ins>Rebuke Barbarism (recharge 2/6).</ins> Each living creature near the priest that is not wearing at least 3 metal items must save vs fear or be frightened.

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> _Bless, Control Flames, Fire Truth, Flaming Sphere._
</details>



