---
layout: post
tags: monster undead city cursed 
permalink: /monsters/ghost
title: Ghost
---

##### Greatly inspired by Dael Kingsmill [design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RlHom7zSWD0&ab_channel=MonarchsFactory). Art by me :)

**Powerful spirit bound by an unfinished business.** Raw horrible emotion incarned, relentless fury. Notorious short fuse. It dwells near a cursed memento of its endless pain.

_Imagine a person frozen in their last moments, eternally reliving the horrible emotions of their demise. Their traits are twisted in grotesque ways._

An **undead**.

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:300px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **Hit Points:** 13 (3 HD) | **Armor:** 0 |
| **Hit it:** easy  | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** slow  |  **Senses:** darkvision | 

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

The ghost is _undead_. It doesn’t need to eat, breathe or sleep, neither can it be sick or poisoned. However, direct sunlight makes it lose all resistances and immunities.

The ghost is _ethereal_. It can pass through anything, and cannot be affected by nonmagical objects.

A ghost can only be killed when its _unfinished business_ is resolved. If it is slain before that, it comes back after 1 hour.

**Attacks (1/round)**<br>
_The ghost attacks twice per turn near its cursed memento._

<ins>Abnormal Shivers</ins>. A room in the ghost’s domain becomes extremely cold for the next 10 minutes. Creatures who decide to stay become [exhausted](/2020/11/09/base-rules/). Can affect one room at a time.

<ins>Deadly Phantasm</ins>. One creature must save or be victim of a terrible illusion of the ghost’s choice. The illusion can attack, inflicting 1D6 psychic damage. Other creatures see nothing.

<ins>Overwhelming Emotions</ins>. One creature must save or be [frightened](/2020/11/09/base-rules/). If already frightened, it becomes [exhausted](/2020/11/09/base-rules/). If already exhausted, it becomes enraged and must attack all visible creatures until it cannot see any.

<ins>Possession</ins>. One creature must save or be possessed by the ghost. The possession lasts up to 1 hour, or until the host drops to 0 HP. Until then, the target must obey a simple command without revealing they are possessed. While possessing, the ghost uses its _alternative attacks_.

<ins>Spatial Distortion</ins>. For 1 turn, all doors in target room lead to one room of the ghost’s choice OR target path or corridor becomes infinitely long.

---

<span class="alchemy">**Cursed Memento**. An important object related to a ghost’s death or love. Indestructible until its unfinished business is resolved. More usees here.</span>

If a creature touches the ghost’s _cursed memento_ for the first time, or is possessed and disobeys the ghost’s command, the ghost _materialises_. The triggering creature must then save against fear or lose all HP.

While _material_, the ghost cannot pass through things and is affected by nonmagical objects. If slain in this state, it comes back _ethereal_. While material, its attacks are replaced by the following:

**Alternative Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Telekinetic Push</ins>. One creature must make a save or be shoved nearby, falling [prone](/2020/11/09/base-rules/) and taking damage (1D8).

<ins>Terrifying Abandon</ins>. The ghost makes one melee attack (1D8) with advantage. For the rest of the turn, every attack against the ghost has advantage.

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 ghost & 1D4 [animus](/monsters/animus)
1. **Lair:**  An abandoned house. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** The temperature drops several degrees and you get goosebumps.
1. **Spoor:** A creature, numbed by terror.
1. **Tracks:** Soft cries and whispers in the wind.
1. **Trace:** A window cracks.
1. **Trace:** The lights are snuffed.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Their body to be found and buried with sacred rites.
1. Revenge on their murderer and their descendants.
1. Their discovery to be properly credited to them.
1. To live an event one last time through possession.
1. For their lover to acknowledge and forgive them.
1. Ruin the person who ruined them.  

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Summoning the Spirit</summary>

If you know the spell [Occult Consultation](https://saltygoo.github.io/2020/11/13/occult-consultation/), you can alter it in such a way for a minimum of 3 Spell Dice:

**Summon Ghost** <br>

You summon one ghost, which uses its pure dread ability on you. It will then attempt to possess one creature it deems a good vessel. if it can't, it will disappear in [dice] rounds.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
This version of the ghost is greatly inspired by Dael Kingsmill [design](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RlHom7zSWD0&ab_channel=MonarchsFactory) — SaltyGoo
</details>
