---
layout: post
tags: monster beast city arctic desert rocky mountain plains air sea 
permalink: /monsters/griffon
title: Griffon
---

##### Classic monster from European heraldry.

The wings and head of an eagle with the body of a lion. A large carnivorous beast.

Griffons live in small packs anywhere there is a lot of open sky. They hunt any large stranded beast by swooping from above. 

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD** 3 | **Armor:** 0  |
| **Hit it:** normal | **Dodge it:** normal |
| **Movement:** fast, fly fast      | 

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

This creature has an excellent sense of sight.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pounce.</ins> The griffon jumps on a target that is not already engaged in melee with it, and makes two melee attacks (1D6 dmg) with its claws.

<ins>Dive.</ins> The griffon dives on a target that is far below it and grapples it. If it succeeds, it flies up nearby and can choose to drop it. The target takes fall damage.

<ins>Beak.</ins> The griffon makes a melee attack (1D8).

<br>

---

**Number** : 1D4 <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : A massive nest perched high (1D6 -2 eggs)<span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span> <br>
**Desire** : Feed Its Cubs & Shining Preys

<button id="generate-btn">Generate Roaming Monster Event</button>
<p id="RoamResult" style="font-style: italic;">When you roll this monster on your encounter table. Most of them are hints the monster is nearby.</p>

<button onclick="generateMood()">Generate What The Monster Is Doing</button>
<p id="MoodResult" style="font-style: italic;">If the party meets this monster, what is it doing?</p>
<script src="/scripts/generateMood.js"></script>

---

## So, You Are Hunting Griffons?

New carousing activities!

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Tame the Beast</summary>
If you have captured this beast, you can spend the equivalent of 3 bags of gold in food between two adventures to tame it. It is now one of your <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="You can bring a follower in your adventures if you dedicate a Psyche slot to it."><i>followers</i></span>. Each extra bag of gold spent training the beast teaches it a one-word order. Otherwise, it only acts to eat or in self-defence. 
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Craft from Beast Parts</summary>
Griffon feathers make prized quills, and their pelt is often worn by kings, but killing such a beast would be sacrilege: they are worth much more tamed. Lucky you if you find an egg.

If you have access to an artisan and a workshop, you can spend loot between two adventures to create something with parts of the beast. The object you craft can be anything mostly made of the provided materials. If you use mundane tools, the result will be mundane; if you spent at least a bag of gold on it, the object will be special; and if you spend the equivalent of a treasure for the tools, it will be magical. Discuss what you want with the referee.
</details>

<script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
  <script>
  // ENCOUNTER GENERATOR SCRIPT
    $(document).ready(function() {
      $("#generate-btn").click(function() {
        // define the specific value to search for in column 0
        var searchValue = "0005"; // change this to the actual value you need

        // retrieve the CSV file
        $.get("/CSV/Monster - Index.csv", function(data) {
          // split the CSV data by rows and remove the header row
          var rows = data.split("\n").slice(1);

          // filter the rows by the specific value in column 0
          var matchingRows = rows.filter(function(row) {
            var columns = row.split(",");
            return columns[0] === searchValue;
          });
