---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration lesser city underdark chaos astral
permalink: /monsters/manes
title: Manes
---

What's left of a devoured soul. A small aberration.

_Imagine a pink, hairless obese kid with short legs and long skinny clawed arms. Its mouth has rows upon rows of tiny sharp teeth._

_Like a desperate, evil toddler. The food of eldritch horrors._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 0 | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** easy    | **Dodge it:** easy  |
| **Move:** slow     |   | 

It **resists** mind attacks (because it's an aberration).
It **can't** die unless it's would-be killer makes an easy save vs fear.

**Additionally**, when the manes dies, it explodes in a small burst of bile inflicting 1D4 damage to all adjacent creatures.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Claws.</ins> The dretch makes a melee attack (1D4).

<span class="alchemy">**Manes Blood.** Corrosive liquid that explodes if shaken. </span>

<br>

---

# Manes Swarm

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 0 +3D4HP | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** easy    | **Dodge it:** special  |
| **Move:** slow     |   | 

It **resists** mind attacks (because it's an aberration).
It **can't** die unless it's would-be killer makes a save vs fear.

In a swarm, creatures are **immune** to being grappled or attacked by single target spells, and **resist** weapon damage. **However**, they take double damage from area of effect attacks.

**Additionally**, when the manes swarm takes weapon damage in melee, it spills acidic bile inflicting 1D4 damage to its attacker and itself.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Claws.</ins> To dodge a swarm’s attack, the roll has to beat 10 + the swarm's HP. On a hit, the target takes 1D4 damage.
<br>

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1D4 Manes Swarms.
1. **Lair:** A ritualy sacrificed body whose open chest breaches to the abyss. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** A cacophony of screams and scratching noises.
1. **Spoor:** A ransacked room defiled by tiny hands.
1. **Tracks:** A nearby cacophony of screams.
1. **Trace:** Poorly drawn abyssal symbols.
1. **Trace:** A body gnawed to death.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Mutations</summary>

Your studies of the aberration have changed you in horrible, you seem to be starting to melt, and ...

1. ... you explode in a ball of acid if hit by a critical hit.
1. ... your blood becomes acidic. 
1. ... you shrink by one size.
1. ... every time you are hit below 0 HP, 1D6 hostile manes burst out of you.
1. ... 1D4 manes swarms burst out of you to drag you to the abyss.
1. roll again. You know the [spell word](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user#spell-words) *Pathetic* and gain one Spell Die.
</details>
