---
layout: post
tags: monster fey greater arctic forest rocky jungle swamp enchanted
permalink: /monsters/hag-night
title: Hag
---

Curse-brewing, children-eating crone. Hideous inside and out. Misery aesthete. Condescendingly familiar. A fay.

_"Have you ever shielded your broken heart with a cocoon of bitterness? This distorted hunched woman wrapped in dark shawls embodies that. It corrupts souls."_

Hags are often seen with _[Flocks of Birds](/monsters/bird)_ and other [Beasts](/list/monsters-beast).

##### Inspired by the [The Monster Overhaul](https://coinsandscrolls.blogspot.com/2023/02/osr-monster-overhaul-megapost.html) Night Hag and the witch found in the [Deep Carbon Observatory](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/en/product/312481/deep-carbon-observatory-remastered).

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HP:** 18 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** normal (use willpower)   | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal     |  **Size:** medium | 

##### <span class="tooltip" data-tooltip="Armor = damage reduction · · · Easy/Normal/Hard = roll above 10/15/20 to beat">→ How to read monster stats</span>

It has 9 lives and is **immune** to all the things that killed her. Roll 1D8 to know how many time it has been killed.
It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy).
It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy).
It **can** smell as well as it can see and give itself the illusory appearance of any person.
Out of combat, it can cast witchcraft-themed **magic**.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>8 Ways the Hag Died.</summary>
1. Burned at the stake (fire)
1. Stabbed by children (pierce)
1. Drowned in a well (drowning)
1. Stoned to death (blunt)
1. Beheaded (slashing)
1. Poisoned (poison)
1. Smitten by thunder (electric)
</details>

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bitter Nails</ins>. The hag makes two melee attacks (1D6).

<ins>Spellcasting (lvl 3).</ins> *Animate Object, Sleep, Invisibility, Grasp of the Wind.*

<ins>Collect Soul</ins>. The hag touches a dying target, removes its soul if it fails a save, and puts it into a jar. The target is permanently asleep until it gets its soul back. Cursed targets do not get a save.

<ins>Curse of the Night Hag</ins>. The hag licks the target's blood from her bitter nails and inflict it with a curse:

<span class="alchemy">**Curse of the Night Hag.** A bitter evil is overtaking your soul. Make a save every time you sleep. On a failure, write the name of one of your companions in your psyche. If your psyche is full, forget something that is not the curse. You gain advantage on your actions against the named companion(s) until the curse is lifted. </span>

<br>

---

**Number** : 1 <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : An overgrown cottage <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>=
**Desire** : Cause misery and evil souls

<button id="room-btn">Generate Random Room</button>
<p id="RoomResult">A basic dungeon thematic room.</p>

<button id="generate-btn">Generate Random Omen</button>
<p id="RoamResult">To fill a dungeon room.</p>

<button onclick="generateMood()">Generate Random Action</button>
<p id="MoodResult">To give purpose to the creature.</p>
<script src="/scripts/generateMood.js"></script>

---

## So, You Have Met The Monster?

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Loot It</summary>
Hags care little for money, but they always carry baubles, occult trickets and ingredients. Roll 4 times on the following list.
 
1. Nothing
2. A [potion](https://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2016/05/the-perfect-potion-list.html).
3. Someone's family jewel worth a purse of gold coins.
4. A (1) hand, (2) eye, (3) ear or (4) tongue in a jar. Still functional.
5. A vial with a substance from the [beast apothecary](/2022/10/20/apothecary1/).
6. A human-skin scroll with a [cunning craft spell](/spells/#cunning-craft).

Also, warts from a hag are valued by witches and alchemist :
<span class="alchemy">**Hag Warts.** Ingredient. If you make a broth with _hag warts_ and the _blood_ of 4 different types of nocturnal creatures, you can change one word from one of your class abilities or known spell to "_Cauldron_". If mixed with another potion or recipe, change one word of its effect with "_Ugly_".</span>

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Play As One</summary>
The [Goat character class](/class/magic-user/goat).
</details>


 <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
<script>
      $(document).ready(function() {
        function generateResult(buttonId, resultId, columnRangeStart, columnRangeEnd) {
          $(buttonId).click(function() {
            var searchValue = "0031"; // Change this to the actual value you need

            $.get("/CSV/Monster - Index.csv", function(data) {
              var rows = data.split("\n").slice(1);
              var matchingRows = rows.filter(function(row) {
                var columns = row.split(",");
                return columns[0] === searchValue;
              });

              var selectedRow = matchingRows[Math.floor(Math.random() * matchingRows.length)];
              var selectedCell = selectedRow.split(",")[Math.floor(Math.random() * (columnRangeEnd - columnRangeStart + 1)) + columnRangeStart];

              $(resultId).html(selectedCell); // Use .html() to insert HTML content
            });
          });
        }

        generateResult("#room-btn", "#RoomResult", 38, 43);
        generateResult("#generate-btn", "#RoamResult", 3, 8);
      });
    </script>
