---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration lesser desert jungle underdark chaos
permalink: /monsters/maw-demon
title: Maw Demon
---

Teeth demon of carnage. An horror.

_Imagine a mouth with rows of sharp teeth. Three pupil-less orange eyes blot out of the lips like sores. Its sinuous flesh expands in six clawed appendages. Three teeter on the floor like feet, and three flail the air in a frantic manner. When the mouth opens, you see only more teeth._

_Strong, violent, tireless._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 2 | **Armor:** as leather  |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal     |   | 

It **resists** mind attacks (because it's an aberration).
It **can** smell blood.
It **can't** die unless it's would-be killer saves vs fear.

**Also**, if any creature dies or starts dying near it, it immediately moves as close as it can to it.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite.</ins> The maw demon makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Flail.</ins> The maw demon makes a melee attack with disadvantage (1D6) against all adjacent creatures.

<ins>Consume.</ins> The maw demon starts swallowing a dying target. If it hasn't received damage until it's next turn, it spits 1D4 [manes](/monsters/manes).

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:**  1 maw demon & 1D8 gnolls.
1. **Lair:** A big altar to Yeenoghu, the pretender god of carnage, on a pile of limbs. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Sound of raking and jaws being snapped.
1. **Spoor:** Sparse remains of a gnawed body.
1. **Tracks:** A path of destruction and chomped things.
1. **Trace:** Maw shrine.
1. **Trace:** A dead gnoll.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Mutations</summary>

Your studies of the aberration have changed you in horrible, gruesome ways: A toothed jaw grows on ...


1. ... belly. You need twice the number of rations per day.
1. ... loins. It laughs when you are emotional. 
1. ... head. It contradicts you when you say the truth.
1. ... neck. You can bend your head backward. It does 1D4 damage if you attack with it.
1. ... belly. You can store 1 indigestible object in it.
1. roll again. You know the [spell word](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user#spell-words) *Eat* and gain one Spell Die.
</details>
