---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration lesser city underdark chaos earth astral
permalink: /monsters/dretch
title: Dretch
---

Stinky trash demon. A small aberration.

_Imagine a slumbering and bloated hairless green monkey with a bat face. All it wants is to create the biggest pile of rotting flesh._

_Like a very dumb and evil chimp._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 1 | **Armor:** none  |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** slow     |   | 

It is **immune** to poison.
It **resists** mind attacks (because it's an aberration).
It **can** smell the absence of rot.
It **can't** die unless it's would-be killer saves vs fear.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Claw.</ins> The dretch makes two melee attacks (1D4).

<ins>Fetid Cloud.</ins> The dretch expels a putrid cloud that obscures the area around it, lasting 1 minute. Creatures must save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions) while in the cloud.

<span class="alchemy">**Dretch Musk.** Save or be [poisoned](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions). Only lasts 10 minutes but affects anyone who smells it.</span>

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 2D8 dretches.
1. **Lair:** A large pit of filth with manes drowning in it. Save against musk. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** A horrible smell is becoming stronger. Save against musk.
1. **Spoor:** The area is recently defiled with filth.
1. **Tracks:** A fetid smell between sweat and sulfur.
1. **Trace:** A distant cry between a baby crying and a sheep.
1. **Trace:** A demonic altar made of trash.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Mutations</summary>

Your studies of the aberration have changed you in horrible, gruesome ways: A grapefruit-sized sack of gas grows on ...


1. ... one of your legs.
1. ... one of your arms.
1. ... inside your lungs.
1. ... your chest.
1. ... your face and might block one of your eyes (1/4).
1. roll again. You know the [spell word](https://saltygoo.github.io/class/magic-user#spell-words) *Fume* and gain one Spell Die.
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>DM Notes</summary>
The most common and least powerful of all demons according to Jim Holloway in the [Monster Manual II](https://www.dmsguild.com/product/17005/Monster-Manual-II-1e). I wanted to keep them pretty close to the original. — SaltyGoo
</details>
