---
layout: post
tags: monster fey greater  mountain rocky city enchanted
permalink: /monsters/oni
title: Oni
---

Flesh-eating spirit bully. A fey.

_Imagine an ogre with wickedly intelligent eyes and small horns. Its red, white or blue skin shines like lacquer._

_Malicious wisdom, Precise violence, Greedy palate._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 4 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal     |   | 

It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy).
It **can** see in the dark.
**Also**, it recovers 2HP per round.
Out of combat, it can cast witchcraft, shapechanging and illusion-themed **magic**. 

**Attacks (2/round)**

<ins>Cold Iron Club</ins>. The oni makes a melee attack (1D8).

<ins>Punch</ins>. The oni makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Spellcasting.</ins> *Charm Person, Frost Breath, Gaseous Form, Sleep.*

<ins>Vanish.</ins> The oni becomes [invisible](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 oni.
1. **Lair:** Huge bell in a shrine made of lacquered bones.<br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Cocky cackle.
1. **Spoor:** A parent in panic: "My baby's disappeared!"
1. **Tracks:** Ogre foot tracks.
1. **Trace:** A grinning mask made of lacquered wood.
1. **Trace:** Children have been disappearing.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants </summary>

1. Kidnap local children.
1. Corrupt the local church.
1. Rule the area, but incognito.
1. Take over the area from another fey.
1. Steal from a local petty god.
1. Train prospective heroes in martial arts.

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>
 
You find a large and heavy cold iron club, a lacquered wood mask of the oni's face, and 1D4 trinkets from previous victims:

1. A pious monk.
2. An innocent shepherd.
3. A lost child.
4. A warrior.
5. A fey.
6. A beast.

Wearing the mask gives the wicked inspiration to create a spell with the word *ogre*.

</details>
