---
layout: post
tags: monster fey lesser arctic desert rocky plains swamp city cursed  enchanted
permalink: /monsters/cadejo
title: Cadejo
---

Drunkard-tracking magical spooky mutt. A fey.

<br>

---

# Black Cadejo

_Imagine a big, skinny, shaggy black dog. Its eyes are glowing like red candles and its feet are cloven. It smells like urine and sulfur. The black cadejo is evil._

_Protective of the dead, mean spirited, elusive._

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 2 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** fast     |   | 

It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy).
It **can** hear, smell and hide very well, as well as see in the dark.
**Also**, as a imaginary creature, willpower must be used for attack rolls against it instead of dexterity. 

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Illusionism.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite.</ins> The cadejo makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Spellcasting (1)</ins>. *Charm, Detect Invisibility*.

<ins>Witch Bolt.</ins> The cadejo releases a jolt of electricity, making a ranged attack (1D6).

<br>

---

# White Cadejo

_Imagine a big, skinny, shaggy white dog. Its eyes are glowing like blue candles and its feet are cloven. It smells like urine and holy incense. The white cadejo is good._

_Protective of the dead, altruistic guide, elusive._

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 2 | **Armor:** none |
| **Hit it:** normal    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** fast     |   | 

It **resists** mundane weapons and spells (because it's a fairy), as well as fear.
It **can** hear, and smell very well.
**Also**, as a imaginary creature, willpower must be used for attack rolls against it instead of dexterity. 

**Non-Combat Magic** <br>
Apotropaism.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Bite.</ins> The cadejo makes a melee attack (1D6).

<ins>Spellcasting (1)</ins>. *Cure Wound, Protection from Evil, Bless*.

<ins>Witch Bolt.</ins> The cadejo releases a jolt of electricity, making a ranged attack (1D6).

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>

1. **Monster:** 1 cadejo.
1. **Lair:** A dirt den with flowers growing up in it that only blossom at night. There is a 25% chance that 1D4 drunk specters will come visit the cadejo at any night. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** Smell of urine and sulfur / Smell of incense and urine.
1. **Spoor:** Trap! A hard to spot natural pit. Drunk people cannot see it.
1. **Tracks:** Pungent urine smell.
1. **Trace:** A wandering drunk who never got lost.
1. **Trace:** A wandering drunk, lost and never to be seen again (except in the spoor).
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 What the Monster Wants</summary>

1. Guide wandering drunks to their death. (black cadejo) / Guide wandering drunks to their home. (white cadejo)
1. Corral 3D20 drunken ghosts to a party.
1. Guide travelers to the closest inn or tavern.
1. Lead people away from a nearby passage to the land of the dead.
1. Guard a path, only drunks may pass.
1. Kill blissfully unaware people / Help aware people.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the Body</summary>

Cadejo fur is always oily and shaggy, but is rumored to make the wearer appear dead to undead creatures.

By fermenting cadejo fur oil in a vat, a wizard can create a strong alcohol that will inspire them to create a new spell with the word drunk.

<span class="alchemy">**Cadejo Musk.** One dose spread on the neck will render the wearer appear dead to undead creatures..</span>
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>

In local cultures it is a symbol of ...

1. Partying
1. Bliss
1. Alcohol
1. Afterlife
1. Getting lost
1. Sacred
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
In Central American folklore, the cadejo is a goat-dog that protects or kills travelers, specifically drunkards. There's a good, white-furred one, and an evil black-furred one. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) gives it weapon immunities and magical powers. What I did was give them standard fairy resistances and a magical attack instead of the spell lightning bolt.
</details>
