---
layout: post
tags: monster aberration lesser underdark chaos astral
permalink: /monsters/lemure
title: Lemure
---

##### From roman mythology. I feel the DND version of manes fits lemures better and vice versa.

**What's left of a devoured soul.** Like a desperate, evil toddler. The food of eldritch horrors. Sometimes seen sharing their habitat with [wretches](/monsters/abyssal-wretch). A small horror.

_Imagine a pink, hairless bloated kid with short legs and long skinny clawed arms. Its mouth has rows upon rows of tiny sharp teeth._

<br>

---
|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **Hit Points:** 1 | **Armor:** 0 |
| **Hit it:** easy  | **Dodge it:** easy  |
| **Move:** slow  |  **Size:** small | 

It **resists** mind abilities (because it's an aberration).

**Additionally**, when the lemure dies, it melts in a small puddle of bile and there 50% chance that another lemure spawns from it.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pathetic Claws.</ins> The lemure makes a melee attack (1D4).

<span class="alchemy">**Lemure Blood.** Corrosive liquid that has a chance of spawning a lemure when exposed to air. </span>

<br>

---

# Swarm of Lemures

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **Hit Points:** 7 | **Armor:** 0 |
| **Hit it:** easy  | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** slow  |  **Size:** medium swarm | 

It **resists** mind attacks (because it's an aberration).

In a swarm, creatures are **immune** to being grappled or attacked by single target spells, and **resist** weapon damage. **However**, they take double damage from area of effect attacks.

**Additionally**, when the swarm takes damage, a lemure spawns from the spilled bile.

**Attacks (1/round)**

<ins>Pathetic Claws.</ins> The lemure makes a melee attack (2D4).
<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary style="font-weight: bold;">Study It (1D6 Mutations)</summary>
A dose of [Lemure Bile](/2024/01/01/lemure-bile/) can be harvested from two dead lemures.
  
If you have disected or conversed with this horror, you can spend the equivalent of 1 bag of gold to feverishly study the thing between two adventures and discover weird knowledge beyond reality. If you do so, your studies of the aberration will change you in horrible, gruesome ways. 

Your body now looks like it is in the process of melting. Roll 1D6 for each gold cost spent this way. 

1. ... you explode in a ball of acid if hit by a critical hit (2D6 damage in a burst).
1. ... your blood becomes acidic (1D6 damage).
1. ... you shrink by one size (-2 inventory slots).
1. ... every time damage brings you below 0 HP, 1D6 hostile lemures burst out of you.
1. ... 1D4 swarms of lemure burst out of you to drag you to the abyss.
1. roll again. You can permanently change one word from one of your class abilities or known spell to “Pathetic”.

</details>

<br>

---

## The Lair

**Number** : 1D4 Swarms <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Lair** : A ritualy sacrificed body whose open chest breaches to the abyss.  <span style="display: inline-block; width:30px"></span>
**Desire** : See others suffer.

<button id="room-btn">Generate Lair Room</button>
<p id="RoomResult">A basic dungeon thematic room.</p>

<button id="generate-btn">Generate Random Omen</button>
<p id="RoamResult">To fill a dungeon room.</p>

<button onclick="generateMood()">Generate Random Action</button>
<p id="MoodResult">What it is doing.</p>
<script src="/scripts/generateMood.js"></script>

<br>

 <script src="https://code.jquery.com/jquery-3.6.0.min.js"></script>
<script>
      $(document).ready(function() {
        function generateResult(buttonId, resultId, columnRangeStart, columnRangeEnd) {
          $(buttonId).click(function() {
            var searchValue = "0038"; // Change this to the actual value you need

            $.get("/CSV/Monster - Index.csv", function(data) {
              var rows = data.split("\n").slice(1);
              var matchingRows = rows.filter(function(row) {
                var columns = row.split(",");
                return columns[0] === searchValue;
              });

              var selectedRow = matchingRows[Math.floor(Math.random() * matchingRows.length)];
              var selectedCell = selectedRow.split(",")[Math.floor(Math.random() * (columnRangeEnd - columnRangeStart + 1)) + columnRangeStart];

              $(resultId).html(selectedCell); // Use .html() to insert HTML content
            });
          });
        }

        generateResult("#room-btn", "#RoomResult", 38, 43);
        generateResult("#generate-btn", "#RoamResult", 3, 8);
      });
    </script>
