---
layout: post
tags: monster  jungle swamp
permalink: /monsters/dingonek
title: Dingonek
---

Armored poisonous dinosaur with a deadly bite and a deadlier tail. A large beast.

_Imagine a large lumbering armadillo. It is covered in pangolin-like brown scales. Its head is topped by a two feet-long single horn and two long canines frame its snout like sabers. Its tail is lined on all sides by irregular spikes. Many pieces of vegetation are stuck on it._

<br>

---

|  <span style="display: inline-block; width:250px"></span>  |  |
| -------- | --------|
| **HD:** 4 | **Armor:** as plate  |
| **Hit it:** easy    | **Dodge it:** normal  |
| **Move:** normal, swim normal     |   | 

It **can** hold its breath 15 minutes.

**Attacks (2/round)**

<ins>Defensive Crouch</ins>. The dingonek can't move next turn and damage against it is rolled with disadvantage.

<ins>Tail Swipe</ins>. The dingonek makes a melee attack against two adjacent creatures (1D6) behind it. On a hit, they fall prone and must save against poison or take Strength damage (1D6).

<ins>Gore</ins>. The digonek makes a melee attack with its horn (1D6). On a hit, the target is thrown behind the dingonek and falls [prone](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).

<ins>Bite</ins>. The digonek makes a melee attack (1D6). On a hit, the target is [grappled](/2020/11/10/extra-rules/#conditions).

<br>

---

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Random Encounter</summary>
1. **Monster:** 1 dingonek.
1. **Lair:** Big mound of overturned moss and earth. 50% chance that there are 1D12 eggs. <br>    &nbsp; OR <br>    **Omen:** The noise of a slow, giant rake.
1. **Spoor:** A dead predator, its flesh bludgeoned, pieced and cut.
1. **Tracks:** Flattened, roughly raked vegetation.
1. **Trace:** Large pangolin scale.
1. **Trace:** Distinctive musk on a mossy rock.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Salvaging the body</summary>

Killing a dingonek is very dangerous but it can feed a village and many weapons can be made from its hide: scale armor, clubs and spears, etc. but the most precious is without doubt its poison.

<span class="alchemy">**Dingonectar.** Poison. Save or be poisoned, save again each day to cure. Lowers Strength by 1D8.</span>
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>D6 Symbolism</summary>
In local cultures the arassas is a symbol of ...

1. Warriors
1. City walls
1. Stubbornness
1. Stupidity
1. Patience
1. Sacred
</details>

<br>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Credits</summary>
The dingonek is a cryptid from kenya described as a giant saber-toothed semi-aquatic armadillo. [Richard J. Leblanc Jr](http://savevsdragon.blogspot.com/)'s adaptation in the [Creature Compendium](https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/147588/CC1-Creature-Compendium) chooses to give it poison. I imagined it like some sort of hippo-ankylosaur. — SaltyGoo </details>
