---
layout: post
tags: article dungeon
title: Dungeon Generator 1 - WINTERMILL
---


Since my **[dungeon generator](/pages/randomdungeon2/)** _beta_ now has 50 monsters to pick from, I wanted to earnestly try to use it and flesh out the results into something more coherent. For this dungeon, I settled on trying something that would fit in a highland plateau. With that in mind, I set the generator's biomes to _Plains_ and _Mountain_.

Here's the result that I got from the generator:

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Generator Results</summary>

**General Dungeon Features**

*Eroded by the wind. Levitating islands. Faint odor of cooked food and dried beer. Brisk and cold.*

**Monster Encounter Table**

*Fast giant hawks. Religious bounty hunters. Griffons. Astral Knights chasing a cosmic villain. Air Elementals protecting the sky.*

### **Dungeon Rooms**

**MAGICAL WINDMILL**

*Medium built room. Huge copper turbine with a bound AIR ELEMENTAL inside. Noise-amplifying crystals. Bear trap. Shattered goat and horse bones.*

Loot: 1D100 feet of climbing rope.

**PORTAL TO the PLANE OF COLD**

*Small outdoor space. White runic portal spewing clouds and smoke floating on a flying platform. Advice-whispering wind. Tattered banners with a heraldic griffin. Faraway hawk scream.*

Denizens: 1 playful AIR ELEMENTAL.

**THIN TALL SPIRE**

*Small outdoor space. Gorgeous panorama. Vertigo inducing. Hardy mountain tree. Tattered banners with a heraldic griffin. Supernatural wind with no particular direction.*

Loot: 1D4 griffon eggs. A porcelain shield.

**NARROW CLIFFSIDE PATH**

*Small outdoor space. Falling pebbles. Hard to run. Broken bones of fallen climbers. Higher outcrop overseeing the area. Bashed-in astral knight helmet.*

Denizens: An adventurous ASTRAL KNIGHT and its retinue of 1D10 SOLDIERS.

Loot: 1 shiny bronze ring worth a purse of silver coins tucked in a wall crack near the ceiling.

**WINDSWEPT ROPE BRIDGE**

*Large outdoor space. Across a deadly 200' chasm. Can only support 2. Sparrow nests in cracks. New barrel of ale. Everything is scattered as if a whirlwind went through the space.*

Denizens: A lost ASTRAL KNIGHT and its retinue of 1D10 SOLDIERS.

Loot: 1D4 hidden scepters.

**HIGHEST PEAK**

*Small outdoor space. Above clouds. Snow covered. Hardy mountain tree. Big bird nest. Bounty notice.*

Loot: A porcelain breastplate._

</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Creative Process</summary>
The **generated dungeon features** implie an old stone structure recently inhabited by humanoids. The plural levitating islands tell me I’ll need to group the rooms in separate island blocks and find ways to link them.

Looking at the **encounter table**, I notice it has two types of beasts, two types of humanoids, and one magical creature. It feels natural to group the bounty hunters and knights together as a faction. The air elementals would make a good rival faction, as they must be protecting the sky from something. While the hawks and griffons could be mounts or just roaming creatures. There’s a hint of a plot developing.

Looking at **the rooms**, I could imagine “entering” through the *cliffside path*, connecting to the highest peak and the rope bridge. It seems perfect as an introduction: the danger (falling) is clearly telegraphed and there are NPCs to drag the players in the dungeon’s conflict. The rope bridge could connect to the only other man-made room of the dungeon: the windmill, on a floating island, which could be the knights’ base. I’m left with the elemental portal and the thin spire. I want the elemental portal to be the base of the elementals, so I don't want it adjacent to the windmill. The spire could be on the same island however, with the windmill hanging from it. By placing the portal on a separate flying island and making it accessible by gliding from either the highest peak or the spire, I have created a nice loop and the architecture is complete! Let’s call this place Wintermill. The challenge of describing this dungeon is that most of it is outdoors, so nearly all visible at once, but it will make for a great exploration puzzle.

</details>

<br>

---

# Wintermill

Built by a wizard in the mountains a decade or so ago, Wintermill has caused much grief to the pastoral clans living in the highlands below: Since its appearance, summers have been cold and the pastures grown barren. To remedy the situation, the clans have pooled together their reserves of mountain poppies to hire two questing dream-knights of St-Nugibert. You do not have much time left if you want to claim the secrets of Wintermill and the bounty for yourself.

<ins>Possible Hooks</ins>
- Mountain poppy, which is mainly used in religious rituals by the locals, is a powerful narcotic and worth a lot of money in the Empire (enough to level up). It is used by dream-knights to astrally project for days.
- The dream-knights of St-Nugibert are based in the dream-fortress of the same name in the astral plane. If you would help them, they could give you access.
- The local shepherds' description of Wintermill would suggest the presence of a portal to the elemental plane of cold. Many powerful beings are imprisoned there.
- Bardinal, the wizard who built the mill, was a well known inventor. The mill must have an arcane purpose that you could harness.

### General Features

*Brisk and cold air. Climbable eroded stone surfaces. Two floating islands 200' above the ground and 90' away from the mountain's flank.*

### Encounter Table
D6 every 30 minutes. The dungeon does not repopulate.

<details markdown="1">
<summary>1. <b>Cunegund the <a href=/monsters/knight>Astral Knight</a></b> and <b>1D8 <a href=/monsters/bandits>Squires</a></b></summary>
Cunegund is a questing knight from the dream-fortress of St-Nugibert. There are 8 squires in total in the dungeon, including Belfrey. Squires that are not with currently with Cunegund are camping with Rottrad in the Windmill (#5).

- <ins>Disposition</ins>: authoritative and high as a kite.
- <ins>Wants</ins>: Establish a base of operation in the Windmill (#5) to close the portal (#6) and restore planar integrity. Obtain mountain poppy.
- <ins>Has</ins>: Authority over the squires and Rottrad. Access to the Dream-Fortress.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>2. <b>Rottrad the [Astral Knight](/monsters/knight)** and **Belfrey the [Squire](/monsters/bandits)</b></summary>
Companion and fellow questing knight to Cunegund.
  
- <ins>Disposition</ins>: Lazy and cowardly. These two only care about each other now that Synard and Marion are dead.
- <ins>Wants</ins>: Synard’s breastplate (#3) and Marion’s banner (#6). A plausible, honorable excuse to planeshift back home.
- <ins>Has</ins>: Authority over the squires and Cunegund. Access to the Dream-Fortress.
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary>3. <b>Springsun the [Religious Bounty Hunter](/monsters/bounty-hunter)</b></summary>
Companion and fellow questing knight to Cunegund.
  
- <ins>Disposition</ins>: Lazy and cowardly. These two only care about each other now that Synard and Marion are dead.
- <ins>Wants</ins>: Synard’s breastplate (#3) and Marion’s banner (#6). A plausible, honorable excuse to planeshift back home.
- <ins>Has</ins>: Authority over the squires and Cunegund. Access to the Dream-Fortress.
</details>
