---
layout: post
tags: article spells
title: GLOGmas 2025 - Phlox's Library
---

Hello! I have the huge privilege of having drawn Phlox of [**Phlox's GLoG Server**](https://discord.com/invite/AYXEGw9yCE) fame as my GLoGmas inspiration. I am lucky because this gives me the opportunity to be actually grateful for once! For people only interested in the gameable content, just skip the next paragraph because I'm about to be heartfelt.

I remember being a disillusionned 5e DM in 2019, stumbling with excitement upon the OSR scene, being intimidated and awed by the big bloggers of the time (haha) and quickly recoiling at the angry-old-dudeness of it all. I also remember breathing a sigh of relief when reading the silly-ass GLoG wizards schools for the first time and joining your server. I may not have been the most active poster during my five years there, but I am definitely happy! You really have managed to foster a great community of disparate people who elevate, support and refreshingly steal each other's ideas in a way that is so joyful to me. At first I was wondering who was this person who puts their name in front a Discord server, but I realise now that it perfectly captures the camaraderie of a bunch of gretchling squatting your basement and having fun. I am sure I am not the only one who was able to grow a lot creatively because you provided and fostered this cool space. **Happy GLoGmas!**

By the way, [Hilander](https://shadowandfae.blogspot.com/) drew me for the GLoGmas celebrations, and the result is a ruleset and a dungeon! [You can find them here](https://hilanderrpgs.bearblog.dev/salt-silver/)!

# Phlox's Library

Somebody joked this year that I took hours of their work on a blog post and reduced it to a four-lines spellbook. Well, here I go again: **Four months of Phlox's writing ([sept-december](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/2025/12/)) distilled into 5 spellbooks for my [wizard](/class/wizard) class! (including 8 new spells)** As usual, you can click on the ▶ symbols to expand the text.

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>115. Every God-Damned</b></summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *Wrapped in scarlet velvet and written in blood.*
- You are skilled in medical bleeding. Provided with a sharp tool and 10 minutes, you can safely extract a gourd of blood from any human-sized living creature.
- Each time you study this book, roll on the [Every Goddammn Vampire generator](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/2025/12/every-goddamn-vampire-in-this-goddamn.html). Select one randomly by scrolling 1D12 seconds from the bottom of the page. This vampire is in the nearest town and you know where to find them.
- Roll 1D4, you gain the following spell: 1. [Blood Scabbard](/2020/11/13/blood-scabbard/), 2. [Chain of the Bloodline](/2020/11/13/chain-of-the-Bloodline/), 3. [Covenant](/2020/11/12/covenant/), 4. [Dream](/2020/11/13/dream/)
###### *Inspired by [Phlox](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/)*
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>116. The Great Dolmenwood Treasure Map</b></summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *Scroll tube in the shape of an old branch with 3 engraved Ts. The map has been rendered nearly useless from all the arcane notes in it.*
- By sweeping tracks on the ground with a pine branch, you can make them lead somewhere else you've been to.
- Each time you study this book, roll a D12 and let the DM give you a [clue](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/2025/11/the-great-dolmenwood-treasure-hunt-part.html#Details).
- Roll 1D4, you gain the following spell: 1. [Beseech](/2020/11/13/beseech/), 2. [Fey Ring](/2020/11/13/fey-ring/), 3. [Fold Space](/2020/11/13/fold-space/), 4. [Speak With Birds](/2020/11/13/speak-with-birds/)
###### *Inspired by [Phlox](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/)*
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>117. Twenty Obtenebration Rituals</b></summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *Two-hundred black pages bound in a shroud. Can only be read in complete darkness.*
- If you empty a jug of water unnoticed while in the presence of creatures, you will not elicit any emotional reactions from them until sunrise.
- Each time you study this book, you gain [a ghostly dead follower](https://coinsandscrolls.blogspot.com/2017/06/osr-table-of-camp-followers.html). It can't interact with or clearly see the physical world, but they can be sacrificed to completely block and undead's attack.
- Roll 1D4, you gain the following spell: 1. [Geas](/2020/11/13/geas/), 2. [Kladenets](/2020/11/13/kladenets/), 3. [Lucifuge](/2020/11/13/devour-light/), 4. [Sacrament of Life](/2020/11/13/sacrament-of-life/)
###### *Inspired by [Phlox](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/)*
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>118. The Conquest of Tesdudis</b></summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *A giant cloth embroidered with military maps and historical notes.*
- Choose a faction. It recognises you as an official military consultant.
- Each time you study this book, your faction of choice will succeed off-screen in capturing one hex or person.
- Roll 1D4, you gain the following spell: 1. [Cold Snap](/2020/11/13/cold-snap/), 2. [Golden Paddle](/2020/11/13/golden-paddle/), 3. [Retching Plague](/2020/11/13/potpourri/), 4. [Walking Tree](/2020/11/13/walking-tree/).
###### *Inspired by [Phlox](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/)*
</details>

<details markdown="1">
<summary><b>119. The Better Parts of Earth</b></summary>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; *An atlas. When looked through a crystal globe, glowing formulas appear on the otherwise useless maps.*
- You can target your spells by pointing at a location on a map.
- Each time you study this book, you can add a feature of your choice in a hex of your choice.
- Roll 1D4, you gain the following spell: 1. [Bramble Burrow](/2020/11/13/bramble-burrow/), 2. [Astral Mercator Projection](/2020/11/13/astral-projection/) (you travel to a point on a map!), 3. [Star Map](/2020/11/13/star-map/), 4. [Subterranean Gullet](/2020/11/13/subterranean-gullet/)
###### *Inspired by [Phlox](https://whosemeasure.blogspot.com/)*
</details>
